# Product Related Problems

## Interview Basics

---

1. What are interviewers lookin for and what is a good answer
   - Structure: you may systematic approach
   - Comprehebsiveness: Cover the all the important aspects of the problem
   - Feasible: The solution should be practical to be implemented
2. Product development cycles:
   1. Comming up with initial product ideas
   2. Select the subset of ideas using quantitative analysis to choose which ideas worth spend, often refers to [oppotunity sizing](https://medium.com/related-works-inc/intro-to-opportunity-sizing-ce9d7e5a29c4)
   3. Experimental design: involving with selecting success and guardrail sucess, running sanity check, choosing randomization units...etc. Need to consider alternatives when A/B testing is unachievable.
   4. Making launch decision based on experiment results. Diagnosing problems and evaluating tradeoffs.

## Metrics Frameworks

---

Through out the product development cycle, we need to decide the most important thing, the **metrics**.

1. Overview metrics:
Overall, a good metric should be
    - simple: easy to understand and calculate. People are able to remember and discuss it easily.
    - clear: the definition is explicit and no ambiguity in interpretation.
    - actionable: can be moved by improving products and not easily gamed.
    - Taxonomy of metrics
        - Success metrics
            - Click through rate (CTR)
            - Call to action (CTA) -> CTR
            - Daily active users (DAU)
            - Monthly active users(MAU)
            - Bookins / subscription
            - Purchase
            - Revenue
            - Conversion rate (CVR) (refers to call to action)
        - Guardail metrics
            - Customer Churn - cancellation / unsubscription rate, bounce rate
            - latency
            - Initial customer acquisition cost (CAC)
    - Common Metric Framework to cover the business
        - General funnel metrics: track "user journey"
            - AARRR growth metrics framework
            - Conversion funnels (B2C):
                - Number of visitors to webpage
                - Number of logged in users
                - Number of users click particular parts of logged in pages
                - Number of users visit checkout page
                - Number of users who purchase
            - Conversion funnels (B2B):
                - Number of visitors to webpage
                - Number of visitors requests for free trials
                - Number of leads to which the sales team proactively reach out
                - Number of contract
                - Number of paid customers who made recurrent purchases
        - Input-output Metrics Frameworks
            - Input / driver metrics: metrics that track the activities and resources used to work towards to outcome.
                - Common: CTR, avg spent time on particular section
                - Fraud detection: FP/FN rate of models, transaction amount
            - Output metrics: metrcs that demostrate the outcome of an initiative
                - Common: session per user, advertisement revenue
                - Fraud detection: fraud loss volumes, loss prevented, revenue...etc.
        - Domain Specific
            - AARRR growth metrics framework
                - Acquisition: getting customer sign up, which requires product awaireness.
                - Activation: Customer get familiar with products.
                - Rentention: customers come back on regualr basis
                - Referral: Customer share the product to others
                - Revenue: customer paid more and more

            - Platform Metrics (Customer Support, Trust and Safety, Payments, Infrastructure, Operations, etc.)

                - Cost of infra / operations:
                - Sucess / Failure rate: payment
                - FP / FN / TP / Fraud loss metrics: fraud
                - Vendor costs: telemarketing

            - Telemarketing:
                - Sales Per Hour (SPH)
                - Contacts Per Hour (CPH)
                - Conversion Rate
                - Average Talk Time (ATT)
                - Average Wrap Time (AWT)
                - Dials Per Hours (DPH)
                - Finalized Per Hour (FPH)
                - Return on Investment (ROI): Sales revenue generated by the campaign divided by the cost of the campaign.
            - B2B
                - Lead-To-Close Conversion Rate (CVR)
                - Initial Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC)
                - [Link](https://blog.zoominfo.com/b2b-marketing-metrics/)

            - Supply Chain: [link](https://www.datapine.com/blog/supply-chain-metrics-and-kpis/)

            - [Ecommerce](https://www.bigcommerce.com/blog/ecommerce-metrics/#what-is-a-metric)

## Common Types of Business Case Questions

1. Diagnosing a problem

    - Clarify the definition of the metric
    - The temporal aspect of the change: Did the metric change suddenly or progressively?

---

### 1. Diagnosing a Problem

## Steps to answer answer data science interview

---
Always recommend starting with clarifying questions and ending with a summary of your approach

### 1. Clarify the question

1. What does a feature / product do?
2. How the feature / product is used?
3. For whom is a feature / product built?

## How to talk about your previous projects

---

### 1. Overview

1. Describe the project in short, and the goal of the project
2. Talk about my impactful/majpr responsibilities
3. Impact in numbers

### 2. Talk about the challenges

1. 2-3 challenages with a mixsure of tech and non-tech chanllenges and how I tackle them.
    - For tech:
        - describe the metric
        - obtaining the data
        - dealing with big dataset
        - training and deployment + deployment
    - For non-tech
        - objections from the teams
        - get other people buy me ideas
        - deliver on time'
        - what I done to unblock myself

### 3. Ask for feedbacks during th challenges

### 4. Talk about some interesting findings

## Learning Resource

---

1. [The Ultimate Guide to Cracking Business Case Interviews for Data Scientists (Part 1)](https://towardsdatascience.com/the-ultimate-guide-to-cracking-business-case-interviews-for-data-scientists-part-1-cb768c37edf4)
2. [Measuring Success with Experimentation
](https://tech.ebayinc.com/research/measuring-success-with-experimentation/)
